RHDEVDOCS 6104 support for StepActions (#79033)
openshift/openshift-docs: create/remote-pipelines-tasks-resolvers.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
[id="remote-pipelines-tasks-resolvers"]

> = Specifying remote pipelines, tasks, and StepActions using resolvers

Reviewer: IMHO we should keep the same style for all resources here, i.e. `step actions` instead of `StepAction`

Author: doing this, yes

> = Specifying remote pipelines, tasks, and step actions using resolvers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
= Specifying remote pipelines, tasks, and StepActions using resolvers
```

Author: The style guide does not permit us to use StepAction as a standalone noun. It can be a StepAction definition, StepAction resource, and so on, but when it's a standalone thing, it's "step action". (And plurals of resource names, such as PipelineRuns or StepActions, can also be confusing)

In a pipeline run resource, you can specify a pipeline from an existing source. In a pipeline resource or a task run resource, you can specify a task from an existing source.

`StepAction` objects are reusable actions that a single step within a task completes. When specifying a step, you can reference a `StepAction` object from an existing source.

In these cases, the _resolvers_ in {pipelines-title} retrieve the pipeline, task, or `StepAction` definition from the specified source at run time.

The following resolvers are available in a default installaton of {pipelines-title}:

Hub resolver:: Retrieves a task, pipeline, or `StepAction` definition from the Pipelines Catalog available on {artifact-hub} or {tekton-hub}.
Bundles resolver:: Retrieves a task, pipeline, or `StepAction` definition from a Tekton bundle, which is an OCI image available from any OCI repository, such as an OpenShift container repository.

> Cluster resolver:: Retrieves a task, pipeline, or `StepAction` definition that is already created on the same {OCP} cluster in a specific namespace.

Reviewer 3: Note: this is not supported in 1.16.x I think 😅 but will be in 1.17.

Git resolver:: Retrieves a task or pipeline binding from a Git repository. You must specify the repository, the branch, and the path.

> An {pipelines-shortname} installation includes a set of standard tasks and `StepAction` definitions that you can use in your pipelines. These tasks and `StepAction` definitions are located in the {pipelines-shortname} installation namespace, which is normally the `openshift-pipelines` namespace. You can use the cluster resolver to access the tasks.

Reviewer: @vdemeester since shipped step actions will be unusable in 1.16, should we even mention them here?

Author: I discussed it with Savita annd there is an HTTP workaround that I will document.

In these cases, the _resolvers_ in {pipelines-title} retrieve the pipeline, task, or `StepAction` definition from the specified source at run time.

The following resolvers are available in a default installaton of {pipelines-title}:

Hub resolver:: Retrieves a task, pipeline, or `StepAction` definition from the Pipelines Catalog available on {artifact-hub} or {tekton-hub}.
Bundles resolver:: Retrieves a task, pipeline, or `StepAction` definition from a Tekton bundle, which is an OCI image available from any OCI repository, such as an OpenShift container repository.
Git resolver:: Retrieves a task, pipeline, or `StepAction` definition from a Git repository. You must specify the repository, the branch, and the path.
HTTP resolver:: Retrieves a task, pipeline, or `StepAction` definition from a remote HTTP or HTTPS URL. You must specify the URL for authentication.
Cluster resolver:: Retrieves a task or pipeline that is already created on the same {OCP} cluster in a specific namespace.
+
[NOTE]
====
In {pipelines-shortname} version {pipelines-version-number}, the cluster resolver does not support retrieving `StepAction` definitions.
====

> An {pipelines-shortname} installation includes a set of standard tasks that you can use in your pipelines. These tasks definitions are located in the {pipelines-shortname} installation namespace, which is normally the `openshift-pipelines` namespace. You can use the cluster resolver to access the tasks.

Author: Thanks, the change was in error and I have reverted it.

{pipelines-shortname} also provides a standard `StepAction` definition. You can use the HTTP resolver to access this definition.

[id="resolver-hub_{context}"]

> == Specifying a remote pipeline, task, or step action from a Tekton catalog

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Specifying a remote pipeline, task, or StepAction from a Tekton catalog
```

Author: The style guide does not permit us to use StepAction as a standalone noun. It can be a StepAction definition, StepAction resource, and so on, but when it's a standalone thing, it's "step action".

include::modules/op-resolver-hub.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[id="resolver-bundles_{context}"]

> == Specifying a remote pipeline, task, or step action from a Tekton bundle

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Specifying a remote pipeline, task, or StepAction from a Tekton bundle
```

Author: The style guide does not permit us to use StepAction as a standalone noun. It can be a StepAction definition, StepAction resource, and so on, but when it's a standalone thing, it's "step action".

You can use the bundles resolver to specify a remote pipeline, task, or `StepAction` definition from a Tekton bundle. A Tekton bundle is an OCI image available from any OCI repository, such as an OpenShift container repository.

include::modules/op-resolver-bundle-config.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::modules/op-resolver-bundle.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[id="resolver-git-anon_{context}"]

> == Specifying a remote pipeline, task, or step action with anonymous Git cloning

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Specifying a remote pipeline, task, or StepAction with anonymous Git cloning
```

Author: The style guide does not permit us to use StepAction as a standalone noun. It can be a StepAction definition, StepAction resource, and so on, but when it's a standalone thing, it's "step action".

You can use the Git resolver to access a remote pipeline, task, or `StepAction` definition from a Git repository. The repository must include a YAML file that defines the pipeline or task. For anonymous access, you can clone repositories with the resolver without needing authentication credentials.

include::modules/op-resolver-git-config-anon.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::modules/op-resolver-git-anon.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[id="resolver-git-scm_{context}"]

> == Specifying a remote pipeline, task, or step action with an authenticated Git API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Specifying a remote pipeline, task, or StepAction with an authenticated Git API
```

Author: The style guide does not permit us to use StepAction as a standalone noun. It can be a StepAction definition, StepAction resource, and so on, but when it's a standalone thing, it's "step action".

You can specify a remote pipeline, task, or `StepAction` definition from a Git repository by using the Git resolver. The repository must contain a YAML file that defines the pipeline or task. You can securely access repositories by using an authenticated API, which supports user authentication.

include::modules/op-resolver-git-config-scm.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::modules/op-resolver-git-scm.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::modules/op-resolver-git-override-scm.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[id="resolver-http_{context}"]

> == Specifying a remote pipeline, task, or step action by using the HTTP resolver

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Specifying a remote pipeline, task, or StepAction by using the HTTP resolver
```

Author: The style guide does not permit us to use StepAction as a standalone noun. It can be a StepAction definition, StepAction resource, and so on, but when it's a standalone thing, it's "step action".

> You can specify a remote pipeline, task, or `StepAction` definition from an HTTP or HTTPS URL by using the HTTP resolver. The URL must point to a YAML file that defines the pipeline, task, or step action.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can specify a remote pipeline, task, or `StepAction` definition from an HTTP or HTTPS URL by using the HTTP resolver. The URL must point to a YAML file that defines the pipeline, task, or StepAction.
```

Author: The style guide does not permit us to use StepAction as a standalone noun. It can be a StepAction definition, StepAction resource, and so on, but when it's a standalone thing, it's "step action".

I use "StepAction definition" earlier, but "define a definition" would be clearly unsuitable.

[id="resolver-cluster_{context}"]
== Specifying a remote pipeline or task from the same cluster

You can use the cluster resolver to specify a pipeline, task, or `StepAction` definition that is defined in a namespace on the {OCP} cluster where {pipelines-title} is running.

> In particular, you can use the cluster resolver to access tasks and `StepAction` definitions that {pipelines-shortname} provides in its installation namespace, which is normally the `openshift-pipelines` namespace.

Reviewer 3: Same as above, not supported in 1.16.x
